[COLOR="Green"][B]BarbarianCiv Description[/B][/COLOR]
Version 2.0
[COLOR="Green"]Enabled[/COLOR] by default


[B]The goal:[/B]

In this mod, barbarian cities, if left to their own devices, will eventually "settle down" into full blown civs!

[B]How it works:[/B]

Barb cities will settle down probabilisticly, with several factor determining the odds.  Starting with version 2.0, barb cities first become single city minor civs.  These city states can't conduct diplomacy, so they're at war with everyone.  When the new civ accomplishes something notable, a leader emerges and the civ settles down into a full civ.  These accomplishments can include conquest, reaching a high population, reaching a high level of culture, building wonders, etc.

[B]More details:[/B]
[SPOILER]
The decision to have a barbarian city form a minor civ is based on the population & culture of the city, whether there are nearby civs, and whether the city was captured.  When a minor civ forms, they take control of this single city and are given some units and techs to get started.  Since they are a minor civ they're at war with everyone else and cannot conduct diplomacy, so you won't see them on the scoreboard.

Each turn the minor civs are checked to see if they deserve to be upgraded to full civ status.  When settling down into a full civ, these minor civs will take on one of two types: militaristic and builder.  If they have conquered a city, they will immeadiately settle into a full, militaristic civ and continue the war against whomever they took a city from.  If they have reached a high level of culture or built a wonder, they will settle as builders.  If they settle due to high population or founding a religion, they have a probabilisitic chance of being one or the other.

The civs get several bonuses depending on whether they're militaristic or builder.  Both types get a base set of defensive units and workers, plus some free techs known to a majority of the world.  The new civ also gets a great person (to symbolize the leader who organized the horde), with the GP type depending on the type of consolidation.  Their captial is given walls and a granary.  If the cities have some culture, the new civ gets half of the total.  These general effects for both types of "rise of the barbs" are intended to partly catch them up with the rest of the world.

Militaristic consolidation is the most exciting in my view.  It's intended to mimic the effect of Ghengis Khan or the Vikings.  There are four different flavors of militaristic settling, Viking, Chariot, Horse, and balanced.  Vikings get boats and mostly melee units, Chariot style is for earlier barb settling and they get chariots and some axes, Horse style is mostly Horse archers or Knights if late enough, while balanced gets an assortment of units.  The strength of the military is fairly random, and increases as the eras go by.  Odds of a militaristic buildup increase if the new leader is Aggressive or Expansionist.  Militaristic new civs will be behind in economic or social technology.  They also get free barracks.  Militaristic barbs have a good chance of getting a Great General when spawned.

Builder consolidation is intended to mimic the rise of a new civ that isn't particularly militaristic.  This type of civ gets additional techs, one or two of which they may be the first to research.  They are given a Great Person and may build a wonder or discover a new tech.  It's not uncommon for them to found a new religion.  They are also given a bunch of extra infrastructure: extra worker, free settler, and some buildings like libraries, lighthouses, and forges (if they have the tech).[/SPOILER]

[B]Notes on use:[/B]

To make this component more exciting, the amount of Barbarian activity has generally been increased.  Particularly, barbarian cities will form both earlier and more often to help this component fill in empty space in the game map with new players.  With this change, a full standard map game will probably see a handful of barb civs emerge.

One fun one to play is start a large world with only a handful of civs, then let the barbarians fill in the gaps.  Be prepared for a potential invasion from a rising power!  BarbarianCiv also works quite well with the Revolution component that can spawn barbarian rebels.

On Terra maps, the "new" world will probably not be as "empty" as before.  A new config variable, NewWorldPolicy, can be used to define how barb cities on their own continent behave so that you can customize how the new world will appear when the first explorers land.  Options range from having it mostly full of civs to keeping barb cities as barbarian until someone starts colonizing.

There are many other settings in the .ini config file, including MilitaryStrength which can be used to create massive military invasions and modifiers for controlling the odds of civ formation.