3:02 PM 5/07/2008

Version 3:
----------
No change from version two other than two double check compatibility with BTS317

Version 2:
----------
Inspired by the fix of the "closeness" bug in "Better Than BTS" build 0.1, there is more incentive now to watch close border tensions because there is less "spurious" war declaration noise. In this light, close border tension is now measured as a direct bi-directional relationship between civs in the relations screen. There is also now shown an indirect by-directional relationship between the civA and another civB if a vassal of civA has border tensions with civB even if civA and civB are not experiencing border tension directly.

Thus the close border tension relationships are easier to understand. You can sometimes infer wars in the relations screen without having to go to the world map and manual determine who is a neighbour of whom. Sometimes playerA will DOW on playerB with no direct religious or border tension and you will wonder why. However when you plot the border tension between playerA and playerB's neighbours, the picture of border tension emerges.

There was also a slight spacing issue fixed in the circle of civs and the vertical borders of the relations screen. 

Next build I am contemplating making it so that the circle of civs is only formed after the number of civs rises above 18, and remains as per vanilla (an arc of civs) when the numbers of civs are less than 18.

Version 1:
----------
Changes the relations screen in the Foreign advisor as such:
1) leaders now form a circle around the player and so there is more room when the number of civs approach 34
2) You can apply constraints on the association between leaders so that there is not such a bird's nest of lines going to and fro.

The constraints are minimal and chosen so as not to double up with information available on the other screens in the foreign advisor. Constraints are also chosen as "common knowledge" constraints and not "extra" constraints that make it too easy for the human. Such things like active trade links could be added but this is supposed to be discovered through espionage spending.

Feel free to change/reject/add to the code just let me know so that I can benefit from any improvements that have been made to my improvements! The code changes are commented as #RevolutionDCM.

Glider1